Documentation for RBAC viewer roles. (#18)
NearNodeFlash/NearNodeFlash.github.io: docs/guides/rbac-for-users/readme.md

---
authors: Matt Richerson <matthew.richerson@hpe.com>
categories: setup
---

# RBAC for Users

> This document shows how to create a kubeconfig file with RBAC set up to only allow viewing resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document shows how to create a kubeconfig file with RBAC set up to restrict access to view only for resources.
```

## Overview

> RBAC (Role Based Access Control) sets what operations a user or service can perform on a list of kubernetes resources. RBAC affects everything that interacts with the kube-apiserver (both users and services internal or external to the cluster). More information about RBAC can be found in the kubernetes [***documentation***](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RBAC (Role Based Access Control) determines the operations a user or service can perform on a list of Kubernetes resources. RBAC affects everything that interacts with the kube-apiserver (both users and services internal or external to the cluster). More information about RBAC can be found in the Kubernetes [***documentation***](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/).
```

> User access to a kubernetes cluster is defined through a kubeconfig file. This file contains the address of the kube-apiserver as well as the key and certificate for the user. Typically this file is located in `~/.kube/config`. When a kubernetes cluster is created, a config file is generated for the admin that allows access to all resources in the cluster. This is the equivalent of `root` on a Linux system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User access to a Kubernetes cluster is defined through a kubeconfig file. This file contains the address of the kube-apiserver as well as the key and certificate for the user. Typically this file is located in `~/.kube/config`. When a kubernetes cluster is created, a config file is generated for the admin that allows unrestricted access to all resources in the cluster. This is the equivalent of `root` on a Linux system.
```

> The goal of this document is to create a new kubeconfig file that only allows read access to kubernetes resources. This kubeconfig file can be shared between the HPE employees to investigate issues on the system. This involves:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of this document is to create a new kubeconfig file that allows view only access to Kubernetes resources. This kubeconfig file can be shared between the HPE employees to investigate issues on the system. This involves:
```
